Writing all this code is a lot.
So what we generally do is we go,
wouldn't it be
a bit better if we could just,
use a syntax word?
And you start understanding
why I really like JSX, and
not some of the other templates DSLs.
Because, actually, let's do this.
Because GSX is great,
it's like JavaScript.
You can literally just be like, click me.
And maybe, what else do we wanna do?
We want to add a click handler,
and that click handler could
look something like this,
I'm just gonna steal this.
And if I can comment out all of
this code we were doing before,
maybe I'll delete in a minute.
If we had a compiler that
could just turn this button
into something that looks like this.
We'd have something pretty
powerful that can just literally,
it's still a DOM element.
And similarly, it'd be pretty great if we
could just take this h1 and
this effect, and
just kinda go, okay, well,
I have an h1 and what is it?
The count is  and
if the compiler could see
that there was a function call,
or property access.
Cuz it always has to be a function call or
a property access cuz we always think
that, then we know it's reactive.
So, if it could just generate some DOM and
maybe whenever it sees that
throws its own effect in.
If we could just do that, and
it could compile to something like this,
then that would be
pretty powerful as well.
And that's exactly what solid does.
If we take, simple vanilla
JavaScript compile from the JSX,
and this one little text node here,
the ones count.
That's the only thing
that needs to update,
because we just wrapped one
effect around it, right.
It's actually very simple compilation.
And, of course,
no one writes code like this, right?
So, if I make a counter,
let's encapsulate this,
let's grab this and kind of put it in.
Maybe we can make this kind of
look like a, put in a function,
we can format it a bit.
And let's return an array,
maybe of our h1 and our button,
and then we could just call
our counter as a function, and
yes, it's very nasty, we just spread it.
So, what we have is essentially
a counter function that you might
think this is a component.
And that would be accurate, but
we're just calling this function once and
just returning these DOM elements and
appending them to the DOM.
Of course, you probably still wouldn't
really write your code like this,
it's a little bit verbose.
So let's take our h1 to kind of inline it,
maybe take our button
here as also inline it.
And gonna get rid of that,
that cleans it up quite a bit.
And, actually, instead of an array,
we can return a fragment,
it's called the JSX,
which is a collection of elements and
get rid of the comma and if all goes well.
We still have a working counter.
And this is starting to look
more familiar to some of you.
We're actually going to
do one more thing is,
the way we're mounting is kind
of a little bit onerous, so
I'm gonna import a (render)
from "solid-js/web";.
And instead of having this at the bottom
we can just go render (counter,
document.body).
And this sort of completes that picture,
format it for style.
And this looks very familiar to anyone
who's used other JavaScript frameworks.
But I really wanna emphasize in,
you might already see it if you've
been falling along,
this counter is nothing special.
It's just a function that got called once.
So if I console log in here and
say  yeah,
we're gonna see our counter here.
But no matter how many times I click this
button, that counter wouldn't log in.
Why would it, it's just a function.
And in fact, we can kind of do
whatever we want in here, right?
We can set interval,
okay, let's do something.
Let's take the function from here,
for the click function, and
I'm not even worried about it,
even infinite loops or
anything here because,
this isn't gonna run ever again.
It's just updating on its own,
and I can also click it and
speed it up a little bit.
But essentially, our component is
just a function that runs once.
And that's because.
Our compiled JSX literally just created
that one effect around that count.
So when our count updates,
the only thing that's happening,
is we're running the code to replace
the text content right here.
That's all that's changing.
There's no components that rerun,
there's no nothing.
Can start seeing why something
like this could be very optimal,
from a performance standpoint.